>> Nina: Try except, most languages
have a concept of a try except block.
Lets say that in my REPLI tried to
make an integer out of the letter A.
I'm gonna get a value error here.
Python's like, I have no idea what to
do with this, this is just bad input.
If I don't want my program to quit,
I notice in the REPL,
exceptions get thrown, but
we can continue working.
In your Python file as soon as
an uncaught exception is thrown,
that ends your program.
So a little bit of a difference there.
This is a lot easier to use for
testing, debugging, etc without
completely losing all of your state.
Okay, so let's say I get some user input.
>> Nina: If I want to catch this
exception, I would put the code,
>> Nina: Under a try block and
then I would accept and
then I would pass in the name of the class
of the specific type of
error that I wanna catch.
Luckily for us it's pretty easy
Python just prints it out right here.
So I'm gonna say except ValueError and
print out,
no way, that's not a number,
what are you thinking, user?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Nina: Okay, so
what's going to happen here?
>> Nina: Our user input is A,
we're gonna try to make it an integer,
Python's gonna fail.
What code is going to run?
>> Speaker 2: The code in
the except print click.
>> Nina: The code in the except block.
And just to show you again,
if I have try here and
I'm trying to make an int and I print out,
I'm gonna say,
>> Nina: Sorry, I'm gonna quit that.
And I'm gonna say my number
is int of user_input.
Print out, great number!, good job.
>> Nina: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: I said, you did it!
>> Nina: You did it, exactly.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Nina: And
now I'm going to accept on my ValueError,
and say what are you doing?
Okay, so it's gonna print out,
No way!, that's not a number!
But it's not gonna print out,
great Number, why?
Because we never got to this code.
An exception was thrown
here at this line and
we immediately jumped
to the except clause.
>> Nina: Your except clause
can have multiple exceptions
given as a tuple, parenthesized tuple.
So, that
code will run if any of
those exceptions are thrown.
So, let's say I have a dictionary,
a simple dictionary and
I have my user input.
I can say try turning my
user_input into an int,
or if that works fine.
And actually sorry, I'm gonna say
that my user_input is the number 2.
So just to be clear, our d has that in it,
our user input is 2.
So I'm gonna try to turn our
user_input into a integer and
I'm also gonna try to get the value in
the dictionary on key
based on the user_input.
Now I can say except and pass in a list
of or rather tuple of exception classes.
So we know TypeError is
gonna be been e one of them.
What's the other one?
>> Speaker 2: Out ValueError.
>> Nina: Right, I'm sorry, ValueError.
And what's the other one?
What error do we get if we try to get
a key from a dictionary that's not there?
>> Speaker 2: Shouldn't there be
a column at the end of ValueError?
>> Speaker 3: KeyError.
>> Nina: KeyError, yeah.
>> Nina: Print, no,
>> Nina: Okay, so,
I'm so sorry, let's see,
let me try that again.
So int(user_input) and
I'm just gonna print it out.
>> Nina: And I also wanted to get
the dictionary, not at user, but
at user_input.
And then the rest of this code will
be the same except ValueError,
KeyError, and then we're gonna print, no.
So this time we will print the user_input.
But then we're going to print, no,
>> Nina: Sorry,
this prints out twice
because of the REPL here.
So this through right here and this
general except clause caught both of them.
We can also stack our try and
excepts generally,
we want to catch the more specific one
first and the less specific one later.
And one more thing about the except
clause we can also give that
exception a name if we want to do anything
with it, look at the label, log it.
So I can say,
try make an integer out of this
and then accept on that value error.
And to give this a name I can say as e,
or doesn't matter what
you name it and then I can print out,
no, as well as e.
And that gives us the message for
that exception.